# Week One Sync Up

## Overview
- Introductions - 5m
- Review the syllabus - 10m
- Activity -15m
- Explore the course web site - 10m
- Discuss week one plan and expectations - 10m
- Explain options for troubleshooting - 5m
[55m]


## Introductions
- Intro self
- If you're comfortable doing so, turn on your camera and introduce yourselves, too? Use the "Raise your hand" feature if you want to do an intro (demo raise your hand)

## Review the syllabus
What's confusing or what do you want to know more about?

### My syllabus notes
- What's worth reiterating?
  - Overcommunicate!
  - You are not alone. In my evaluations from past semesters, one of the bits of feedback I've gotten from students that has meant the most to me is that they felt I was approachable and willing to help. That's been repeated in my evaluations over the last two years and I want you to feel that way, too.
  - Share student evals? This feels braggy, but I hope it's actually comforting to you, especially as we tackle this material in an online classroom.
- What's missing?
  - In this course, almost every week builds on the previous week; the things you learn in weeks one and two -- you'll still be using those things in week 15.
    - I think this is important to note for two reasons:
    - 1. anything you struggle with this week is going to smooth out over time; you just have to have the repetition and let time do its work
    - 2. flip side, if there's something you don't grasp or try to breeze through in week two, it will kind of haunt you through the course until you go back and really learn it
  - Teaching GD2 and GD431 in the same time slot. Sometimes classes will be joined and share resources, maybe 1/4 of the time. Sharing space in Slack; #help, #general are shared channels.
  - I mention in the syllabus that I'm working professionally as a web developer; I lead the front-end team at Lumen Learning. As we continue throughout the course, I'm happy to share my stories of working professionally and my experiences
  - For you as students, this does mean some tradeoffs that the syllabus doesn't acknowledge: For instance, I'm not immersed at MICA and this means I don't always know what you've already learned or covered (admittedly, different for each of you)
  - If I ask questions about that sort of stuff, it's always coming from a place of curiosity, not frustration or anything else negative; to be more clear, with my questions, I'm learning what you know, not being exasperated at what you don't know.
  - The stuff you don't know? That's what I get to teach you about in this class and that's rad -- I honestly feel this way.
  - While we're meeting in these specific time slots this week, I do not intend them to be standard. We'll talk more about what times work for y'all and what's beneficial to meet about in person. And there will be weekly opportunities to meet 1:1.

## Activity
### GD2: First impressions
I'm going to hit the pause button on myself for a minute and ask you for some of your initial impressions about the things we'll be covering and doing in this course.

- Find a piece of paper or someplace else for you to make a couple notes for yourself; I'm going to mute myself for 2-3 minutes and want you to write a short list of the things you think of when you think of the web or the internet. Before I mute, does anyone have questions about what I'm asking you to do? (You can ask by unmuting yourself or in the Zoom chat.)
- Okay, same idea, but this time write a list of the things you think about coding.
- To share what you've written, I'm adding a link to a Google doc to our chat. There's two columns: one for the web/internet and one for coding. Please add your notes to these columns -- and don't worry if you're repeating something someone else has also written; that's helpful, too.
  - Session01:  https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Q1p1DAFLL79Irq5BkehxVYNmNlnhTcNrF0fGzq2NJAw/edit?usp=sharing
  - Session02: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u-vsiGnSbytP8XsHw81botV47bCExHS3_E2q6XMPvqo/edit?usp=sharing

### GD431: What we know
- Share Miro link (you should not need to sign up)
  - Session01:  
  - Session02:  
- Pick a pile of post-it notes and write concepts related to web design and web development that you know of -- these do not need to be things you've used; note that the bulls-eye diagram has three layers: heard of, used it, familiar with
- Try to fill up most of your post-its and feel free to create more if you run out! Please use one color for all your notes -- it will be helpful later to distinguish your notes from your colleagues'.
- Move post its to the bulls eye (remember to take screenshot at this point)
  - This is not meant to evaluate your expertise -- as I noted earlier, the stuff you don't know, I get to teach you and that's exciting. This is just meant to get a sense of what the whole group has been exposed to and your various comfort levels with those things.
- Review your colleagues' post it notes -- and move those accordingly, too -- you can move any post it note further from the center (so, if someone placed a note in familiar, but you've only heard of that thing, move it out; if you've used something someone's only heard of, leave it alone).

## Explore the course web site
I'd like to walk through the course web site with you; some of this stuff may be obvious or you may have already discovered it, but since the course site is going to be an important vehicle for info about the class, I want things to be extra clear and not assume anything.

Screenshare and cover:
- Course homepage: Current Week, Full Schedule
- Open in new window
- Intro: Context, purpose, the WHY
- Sync Up: The planned agenda for any Zoom calls
- Activities: What you'll be learning and working on outside of Zoom classtime
- Asterisk emoji for optional readings/links
  - Again, feel free to ask or double check if something is required (I may have just missed adding the emoji)
- Breadcrumbs
- Resources
  - Review bottom to top
- Learn section + filters
  - Will get filled in as we cover more topics
  - Filters will also start to be more meaningful; right now, a lot of shared info
  - Estimated reading times
- Quizzes
  - UI: Open in new window, fold up
  - Ungraded, but will inform your participation grade
  - Are meant to help you know if you got what I intended out of the reading or exercise
  - Will be another data point to let me know if something is confusing or should be reviewed another way
  - You must add your MICA email address to each quiz to get participation points; this is a little fussy, but the survey monkey quizzes have a much better UI than Google Forms, I hope it's worth it
  - Because the quizzes are meant to test your understanding, I recommend working from your actual memory when you answer vs rereading the page or checking your notes; your participation grade is the same either way, but doing things this way will actually improve your learning.

Questions about the course web site?

The course web site is as up to date and as correct as possible. While it's our source of truth for this class and what we're doing that does NOT mean it's infallible or can't be wrong. If something is confusing on the course web site, let me know. If you think you see something that's wrong, also speak up. I won't be offended or think you're overreaching. It's our shared resource and my best attempt, but that doesn't mean I didn't get stuff wrong, too.

You can also suggest improvements via the "Make this page better" footer on most pages; demo how that works and describe how to use that form.

## Discuss week one plan and expectations
- Note that some things are due by the end of day Friday
- This won't always be the case, but this week it's to make sure everyone is in Slack and I've gotten the intro survey completed
- When I _do_ do this, it will be for very short things and to get the feedback necessary to make the next week useful and relevant to y'all

### GD431 only
- Git and GitHub in plain English; optional
- Priority guides, pg of your resume (google doc)

## Explain options for troubleshooting
- Number one: If you're stuck, don't wait for next Thursday to ask for help.
- Use Slack; there's a #help channel for technical issues and, in later weeks, coding problems
- You can also DM me directly, but I recommend posting in channels if you're comfortable doing so
- More engagement with your colleagues; someone else may have the same issue and, either have solved it themselves or will also benefit from my answer
- Needing to troubleshoot tech and code is 💯 normal; in my professional job, it is still normal; this is not like me offering you training wheels because you're "just learning."
- I'll repeat this a bit throughout the course because it bears repeating. In general, most folks are more comfortable with knowing things than the actual space where learning happens. Even in learning science studies, we see that students tend to spend more time studying the stuff they already know well -- because it feels validating, right? A much better feeling than the anxiety and angst that comes with not knowing. But we don't learn new things or gain skills without spending some time in that zone of discomfort. For that reason, I expect -- and you should, too -- to have broken code, wonky layouts and to have the experience of stuff not working the way you expect it to. Error messages are not a sign of failing; they're a signing of trying something. In my past teaching experiences, all students have come to me with issues to troubleshoot for each of their projects; again, troubleshooting isn't the same as failing -- it's part of what I'm expecting and asking you to do in this course.
